# uXML
uXML - XML based universal Intermediate Language

Currently, there are many programming languages that exist; each designed using specific paradigm(s). Each programming language has its own separate compiler that compiles and executes the source program. It would have been great if all the programming languages have just one front-end compiler each and one common back-end. That would let us write the source programs once (in any programming language) and run anywhere (without bothering if compiler for that language is present or not). This can be achieved if the front-end compilers convert the source programs in a common intermediate format and then the common back-end simply execute the program that is converted in a universal intermediate format. 

uXML is an experiment to analyze the structure and syntax of popular programming paradigms viz. functional, object-oriented and imperative languages and design a universal language which can represent as much possible, the semantics of programming languages that are written in these paradigms. Due to gamut of parsing tools available to process XML files, the intermediate language is in XML format. Thus the uXML format will be more readable than the bytecode format that .NET framework uses in common intermediate language. 

Software metrics are used in industry to measure important properties of software like lines of code, Cyclomatic complexity, Function point analysis, etc.  Due to the disparate syntax of various programming languages, no one tool can perform software metrics of different programming languages. However if all the languages are converted in a common intermediate format like uXML, tools can be easily written to perform the code analysis of uXML. Moreover, since uXML is simply an XML file, writing such tools would not be intricate. uXML can be useful for education purpose as well. A common intermediate language specification will help students write front-end compilers that convert their source code into uXML format. They can also tweak the back-end to incorporate various code optimization algorithms, register allocations or generating a machine code from uXML. Thus this work attempts to design a universal intermediate language that could be useful in various ways.

uXML files are parsed and appropriate actions are taken using [xv](http://www.cs.rit.edu/~ats/projects/lp2/doc/index.html?xv/package-summary.html) - a XML nodes visitor tool developed by [Axel-Tobias Schreiner](http://www.cs.rit.edu/~ats/) from [Rochester Institue of Technology](http://www.rit.edu). Source code of xv can be directly downloaded from RIT's site.
